for the first time ever the Elvis
project allows the dolphins to use
echolocation as a pointing tool to make
choices and answer questions a series of
shapes are projected onto an underwater
screen each shape symbolizes a different
type of fish for example a square and
into macro a cross is a squid by aiming
their echolocation beam at a shape
projected on the screen the dolphins can
choose what type of fish they want to
eat the echolocation beam shows up as
dots green is a weak signal white is
strong underwater hydrophones record the
echolocation sound signals sixteen you
know and the cable just takes the
signals from the hydrophone to the
computer when the echolocation beam is
strong enough for the computer to read
the signal the trainer's whistle blows
and the Dolphins get their chosen reward
only three dolphins in the world have
been trained to do this out of them Luna
was the quickest to grasp the concept
[Music]
she manages to hit her chosen target
almost instantly every time Luna is a
young dolphin and as such a little bit
more motivated she she likes to play to
investigate things and she's very eager
to please the trainers each run of the
experiment yields different results it
allows Luna to choose what she wants to
eat some days witness her favorite
on others it's mackerel here the symbols
for capelin and squid and these brown
and green dots are the trace of the
sonar beam and now Luna hid the squid
symbol and then she made a little buzz
of happiness that she managed to trigger
it she can now go back to the trainer
and she will be given a squid and when
her work duties are over for the day
it's time for some well-earned rest and
clay
the Elvis system is still in its infancy
Amandine hopes one day it could be used
for other projects including allowing
dolphins to choose toys play their own
music and even reveal their emotions